# 1. Setup
---

## Godot install
---

Download `Godot` editor. Godot is portable (no installation required) https://godotengine.org/. ( Version 3.4 MONO as of this document )

## Additional - Author and players not using exported versions
---

- Rename the executable to `godot` and add to Environment paths on your system
- Now on any command line you can use `godot`. 

# 2. Loading BasicGame Project in Godot Editor
---

Make sure to setup a path to the godot executable in your environment path so you're able to run `godot` from command line.

## Opening project Godot

The `BasicGameGodot` project can be opened in the Godot editor by browsing but faster to load into the editor via the file explorer or command line.

- Game   = Run `godot` in the project folder.
- Editor = Run `godot -e` in the project folder.

# 3. New Games - Project setup
---

## Duplicating from the BasicGame example Godot project
---

- Make a copy of the `BasicGame` directory and rename it to your game name `MyNewGame`
- Inside this folder rename the `Godot` project and `VP` directory to similar. `MyNewGameGodot` and `MyNewGameVisualPinball`.

## Godot project setup
---

- Using `VsCode` or similar to replace text in all files, rename `BasicGame` to `MyNewGame`.
- VSCODE Example - Right click inside the BasicGame directory and open with VsCode. `Edit > Replace In Files`. Replace `BasicGame` with `MyNewGame`
- In `MyNewGameGodot` rename the 3 project files from `BasicGameGodot` to `MyNewGame`.
- Delete the `addons` directory if there is one then make a new link from the `_create addons.bat` file.
- Open the project with `_run_godot_editor.bat` and build (top right), then make sure `PinGodAddOns` is enabled in `Project Settings`
- Default Window size in `Project Settings\Display\Window`
- Optional: Update the `export_presets.cfg` to update the exported executable name.

# 4. New Game - Visual Pinball
---

## Visual pinball setup
---

- Rename the table file to something like `MyNewGame (PinGod) VPX10-6.vpx`
- Open the tables script window in `Visual Pinball` and set the game directory to your `MyNewGameGodot` game path.

Provided you have the controller setup the table should run and build godot project and launch.

